# HTTP

[HTTP Video Explanation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LZJNj-HHfII&t=59s)

## What is HTTP?
- HTTP is a plain text language.
- HTTP is basically build on `TCP` (Transmission Control Protocol). TCP is lower-level protocol which handles other lowel-level important stuffs which HTTP does not have to worry about.

## Status Codes

* `1XX` - Information
* `2XX` - Sucess
* `3XX` - Redirect
* `4XX` - Client Erros (like `404 NOT FOUND`), Here client is responsible for the error.
* `5XX` - Server Error (like `503 Server Not Available`), Here server is responsible for the error.

## Port Number

- Like http we also have `https`, `ftp`, `ssh` etc which have some port number assigned to it. 
- It is mainly done to distinguish between all these, as when we will search for something then how our computer will know whether to use `http` or `https`.

**Port Number assigned :-**

* `http` - 80 
* `https` - 443
* `ftp` - 21, `ftp` stands for File Transfer Protocol.
* `ssh` - 22, `ssh` stands for Secure Server Protocol.

**Note :-**
* When we will search for `https://google.com` then by default the search will be for `https://google.com:443`
* By all these port it doesn't mean that  `https` will not work with port number `234`, it will work but it is not which anyone will advise someone to do.  

### More about Port Numbers

- Port numbers are not infinite. They are finite and they range from 0 to 65535. That simply means we cannot start any port number with great than 65535.
- Port numbers below 1023 are privileged port numbers. They require certain administrative access to be opened.

## Request Methods

- `GET` method is the default request method.
- Mostly we do use `GET` method as to browse most of the web. 
- `GET` basically means that you are visiting web-pages.
- `POST` means you want to interact or send some data to the server. `POST` is used to communicate data to the server.
- `PUT` - It's functionality is same as that of `POST` but if we will use `PUT` rather than `POST` then our server and client both knows that we want to create resource.
- `PATCH` means to edit the resource.
- `DELETE` means to delete the particular resource.

**NOTE :-** 
* `GET` method should not have a body as if it will store some data like username, password then anyone can access those data via just visiting the site.

* We can do anything we want using `GET` and `POST` on the internet under `http`. These two are the most powerful methods to use.

* Functionality wise `POST` is the most superior as it can perform as other's as well. Because `POST` contain the `Request Payload` body which contains the resources.

## Request Headers

- Http headers is just a way to provide more information to the request.

- For example `Content-Type: text/html` , this content-type header simply tells which type of content we have.

**Full View of the Request Header**

```
:authority: codedamn.com
:method: GET
:path: /
:scheme: https
accept: text/html,application/xhtml+xml,application/xml;q=0.9,image/avif,image/webp,image/apng,*/*;q=0.8,application/signed-exchange;v=b3;q=0.9
accept-encoding: gzip, deflate, br
accept-language: en-GB,en-US;q=0.9,en;q=0.8,hi;q=0.7
cookie: _gcl_au=1.1.659405939.1664042912; _ga=GA1.1.1679921718.1664042913; _fbp=fb.1.1664042912877.1560911668; AUTH_TOKEN=eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJ1c2VybmFtZSI6ImR1a2U3ODYiLCJfaWQiOiI2MTFjYTUyYzQxYzRhMTAwMDhlNDg4M2QiLCJuYW1lIjoiTW9oaXQgTWlzaHJhIiwiaWF0IjoxNjY0MDQzODM1LCJleHAiOjE2NjkyMjc4MzV9.uzly7qoYubm5iW-vok9M4c7kKG-Qd3HZ6YPKVKQSy4k; amp_824c80=XqiaBPuVfqgshtUxKQWhWe...1ge1rdkrm.1ge1rdkrm.1.2.3; _clck=1drazbx|1|f59|0; crisp-client%2Fsession%2F3e9d1351-f1a3-4320-986d-a97e915064bd=session_b9678a0f-dd6f-4726-95d0-fbbd9d6f8f9f; _clsk=o2x2c1|1664372093460|10|1|n.clarity.ms/collect; _ga_5Q1YFB1R0F=GS1.1.1664372054.10.1.1664372095.0.0.0; amp_824c80_codedamn.com=XqiaBPuVfqgshtUxKQWhWe.NjExY2E1MmM0MWM0YTEwMDA4ZTQ4ODNk..1ge24s6mj.1ge24teib.26.e.2k
referer: https://www.google.com/
sec-ch-ua: "Google Chrome";v="105", "Not)A;Brand";v="8", "Chromium";v="105"
sec-ch-ua-mobile: ?0
sec-ch-ua-platform: "Windows"
sec-fetch-dest: document
sec-fetch-mode: navigate
sec-fetch-site: cross-site
sec-fetch-user: ?1
upgrade-insecure-requests: 1
user-agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/105.0.0.0 Safari/537.36
```

## Firstly, know that:
- URLs are a type of URI
- URNs are a type of URI
- URCs are a type of URI

and there are many other

---
## URI 
 - A standard for identifying documents using a short string of numbers, 
letters, and symbols.
 - Defined by `https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3986`
 
Examples:
  - URLs
  - URNs
  - URCs
--- 
## URL
 - Contains information about how to fetch a resource from its location.
 - Always start with the protocol
 - Can be relative

Examples:
 - `http://example.com/mypage.html`
 - `file:///home/user/file.txt`
 - `tel:1-888-555-5555`
 
--- 
## URN
 - Identifies a resource by a unique and persistent name, but doesn't necessarily tell you how to locate it on the internet. 
 - It usually starts with the prefix urn:

Examples:
 - `urn:isbn:0451450523` to identify a book by its ISBN number.
 - `urn:uuid:6e8bc430-9c3a-11d9-9669-0800200c9a66` a globally unique identifier
 
--- 
## URC
 - Points to meta data about a document rather than to the document itself. 
 - An example of a URC is one that points to the HTML source code of a page
 - *Examples*:- like: `view-source:http://example.com/`
